Swap graduates to Beta1: add a blog-post (#42009)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2023-07-18-swap-beta1-graduation/index.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.28: NodeSwap graduates to Beta"
date: 2023-07-18
slug: swap-beta1-1.28-2023
---

**Author:** Itamar Holder (Red Hat)

> The 1.22 release introduced Alpha support for configuring swap memory usage for

Reviewer: I think we may add a link to the alpha blog in https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/08/09/run-nodes-with-swap-alpha/ here.

Author: Great idea!
Added, thanks!

Kubernetes workloads on a per-node basis. Now, in release 1.28, swap configuration

> graduates to Beta1 with many new improvements.

Reviewer: `Beta1` is not clear to a new user. We may say that Beta1 means that the FG is Beta but will not be enabled by default.

Author: Yup, you're absolutely right.
On second thought, let's not complicate the user with such internal details, I've simply changed it to `Beta`.

Prior to version 1.22, Kubernetes did not provide support for swap memory on Linux systems.
This was due to the inherent difficulty in guaranteeing and accounting for pod memory utilization
when swap memory was involved. As a result, swap support was deemed out of scope in the initial
design of Kubernetes, and the default behavior of a kubelet was to fail to start if swap memory
was detected on a node.

In version 1.22, the swap feature was initially introduced in its Alpha stage. This represented
a significant advancement, providing users with the opportunity to experiment with the swap
feature for the first time. However, as an Alpha version, it was not fully developed and had
several issues, including inadequate support for cgroup v2, insufficient metrics and summary
API statistics, inadequate testing, and more.

Swap in Kubernetes has numerous [use cases](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md#user-stories)
for a wide range of users. As a result, significant effort has been put into making

> the Beta version of Swap more stable, robust, user-friendly, and to adress issues regarding the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Beta version of Swap more stable, robust, user-friendly, and to address issues regarding the
```

---
layout: blog

> title: "Kubernetes 1.28: NodeSwap graduates to Beta"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: "Kubernetes 1.28: Beta support for using swap on Linux"
```

> date: 2023-07-18

Reviewer: The date and title should be changed according to release team's comment later.

I still think that the title `NodeSwap graduates to Beta` is not that accuracy. 
- But beta1 is also not clear.
- This is beta but disabled by default.

Not sure if there is a better suggestion here.

Reviewer 3: /hold

pending assignment of a blog article publication date, and this being updated (including the filename) to match.

> slug: swap-beta1-1.28-2023

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
slug: swap-linux-beta
```

---

**Author:** Itamar Holder (Red Hat)

The 1.22 release [introduced Alpha support](/blog/2021/08/09/run-nodes-with-swap-alpha/)

> for configuring swap memory usage for Kubernetes workloads on a per-node basis.

Reviewer 3: Not quite right. Windows nodes have worked with swap space for some time now, and I think that's actually GA.

Author: Can you elaborate? IIUC swap just introduced in 1.22, before that kubelet would fail immediately if swap was spotted on the node. In addition, this sentence is actually taken from the [previous blog post](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/08/09/run-nodes-with-swap-alpha/#:~:text=The%201.22%20release%20introduced%20alpha%20support%20for%20configuring,for%20pod%20memory%20utilization%20when%20swap%20is%20involved.) for alpha support.

Am I missing anything?

Reviewer 3: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/windows-resource-management/#resource-management-memory says that Windows nodes use paging to disk.

Author: Wow, good to know! interesting!
I'll make it clear that we're talking specifically about Linux here.

> Now, in release 1.28, swap configuration graduates to Beta with many new improvements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, in release 1.28, support for swap on Linux nodes has graduated to Beta, along with many
new improvements.
```

Prior to version 1.22, Kubernetes did not provide support for swap memory on Linux systems.
This was due to the inherent difficulty in guaranteeing and accounting for pod memory utilization
when swap memory was involved. As a result, swap support was deemed out of scope in the initial
design of Kubernetes, and the default behavior of a kubelet was to fail to start if swap memory
was detected on a node.

In version 1.22, the swap feature was initially introduced in its Alpha stage. This represented
a significant advancement, providing users with the opportunity to experiment with the swap
feature for the first time. However, as an Alpha version, it was not fully developed and had
several issues, including inadequate support for cgroup v2, insufficient metrics and summary

> API statistics, inadequate testing, and more.

Reviewer 3: Frame this too as being about Linux

Swap in Kubernetes has numerous [use cases](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md#user-stories)
for a wide range of users. As a result, significant effort has been put into making
the Beta version of Swap more stable, robust, user-friendly, and to address issues regarding the
Alpha version that are mentioned above. This represents a crucial step towards achieving the

> goal of fully supporting swap in Kubernetes in a controlled, reliable, and predictable manner.

Reviewer 3: How about:
```markdown
for a wide range of users. As a result, the node special interest group within the Kubernetes project
has invested significant effort into supporting swap on Linux nodes for beta.
Compared to the alpha, the kubelet's support for running with swap enabled is more stable and
robust, more user-friendly, and addresses many known shortcomings. This graduation to beta
represents a crucial step towards achieving the goal of fully supporting swap in Kubernetes.
```

## How do I use it?
The utilization of swap memory on a node where it has already been provisioned can be
facilitated by the activation of the `NodeSwap` feature gate on the kubelet.

> Additionally, the failSwapOn configuration setting must be disabled, or the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, you must disable the `failSwapOn` configuration setting, or the deprecated
```

`--fail-swap-on` command line flag must be deactivated.

It is possible to configure the `memorySwap.swapBehavior` option to define the manner in which a node utilizes swap memory. For instance,

```yaml

> memorySwap:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# this fragment goes into the kubelet's configuration file
memorySwap:
```

  swapBehavior: UnlimitedSwap
```

The available configuration options for `swapBehavior` are:
- `UnlimitedSwap` (default): Kubernetes workloads can use as much swap memory as they
  request, up to the system limit.

> - `LimitedSwap` (default): The utilization of swap memory by Kubernetes workloads is subject to limitations. Only Pods of Burstable QoS are permitted to employ swap.

Reviewer 3: They're _both_ default?

Try something like:
```markdown

`UnlimitedSwap` (default)
: Kubernetes workloads can use as much swap memory as they request, up to the system limit. This is the default.
`LimitedSwap`
: The utilization of swap memory by Kubernetes workloads is subject to limitations. Only Pods of the [Burstable](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-qos/#burstable) QoS class are permitted to employ swap.
```

If configuration for `memorySwap` is not specified and the feature gate is
enabled, by default the kubelet will apply the same behaviour as the
`UnlimitedSwap` setting.

> Note that `NodeSwap` is supported for **cgroup v2** only. cgroup v1 is no longer supported.

Reviewer 3: Did you mean:
```suggestion
Note that `NodeSwap` is supported for **cgroup v2** only. For Kubernetes v1.28, using swap along with cgroup v1 is no longer supported.
```
?

> ### Install a Swap-enabled cluster with kubeadm

Reviewer 3: ```suggestoin
## Install a swap-enabled cluster with kubeadm
```

#### Before you begin
It is required that the kubeadm tool be installed, following the steps outlined in the
[kubeadm installation guide](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm).
If swap is already enabled on the node, cluster creation may
proceed. If swap is not enabled, please refer to the provided instructions for enabling swap.

> ##### Create a swap file (4Gi here) and turn swap on

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Create a swap file and turn swap on

I'll demonstrate creating 4GiB of swap.
```

```bash
dd if=/dev/zero of=/swapfile bs=128M count=32
chmod 600 /swapfile
mkswap /swapfile
swapon /swapfile

> swapon -s

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
swapon -s # enable the swap file only until this node is rebooted
```

```

To start the swap file at boot time, add line like `/swapfile swap swap defaults 0 0` to `/etc/fstab` file.

> #### Create a Swap-enabled cluster

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Set up a Kubernetes cluster that uses swap-enabled nodes
```

To make things clearer, here is an example kubeadm configuration file `kubeadm-config.yaml` for the swap enabled cluster.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta3"
kind: InitConfiguration
---
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
failSwapOn: false
featureGates:
  NodeSwap: true
memorySwap:
  swapBehavior: LimitedSwap
```

> Then create a cluster using `kubeadm init --config kubeadm-config.yaml`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then create a single-node cluster using `kubeadm init --config kubeadm-config.yaml`.
```

Swap in Beta with automatic configuration of limitations.

With `LimitedSwap`, Pods that do not fall under the Burstable QoS classification (i.e.
`BestEffort`/`Guaranteed` Qos Pods) are prohibited from utilizing swap memory.
`BestEffort` QoS Pods exhibit unpredictable memory consumption patterns and lack
information regarding their memory usage, making it difficult to determine a safe
allocation of swap memory. Conversely, `Guaranteed` QoS Pods are typically employed for
applications that rely on the precise allocation of resources specified by the workload,
with memory being immediately available. To maintain the aforementioned security and node
health guarantees, these Pods are not permitted to use swap memory when `LimitedSwap` is
in effect.

Prior to detailing the calculation of the swap limit, it is necessary to define the following terms:
* `nodeTotalMemory`: The total amount of physical memory available on the node.
* `totalPodsSwapAvailable`: The total amount of swap memory on the node that is available for use by Pods (some swap memory may be reserved for system use).
* `containerMemoryRequest`: The container's memory request.

Swap limitation is configured as:

> `(containerMemoryRequest / nodeTotalMemory) * totalPodsSwapAvailable`.

Reviewer 3: (nit)
```suggestion
`(containerMemoryRequest / nodeTotalMemory) × totalPodsSwapAvailable`
```
We can use an actual multiplication sign.

In other words, the amount of swap that a container is able to use is proportionate to its
memory request, the node's total physical memory and the total amount of swap memory on
the node that is available for use by Pods.

It is important to note that, for containers within Burstable QoS Pods, it is possible to
opt-out of swap usage by specifying memory requests that are equal to memory limits.
Containers configured in this manner will not have access to swap memory.

## How does it work?
There are a number of possible ways that one could envision swap use on a node.
When swap is already provisioned and available on a node,

> [we have proposed](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/9d127347773ad19894ca488ee04f1cd3af5774fc/keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md#proposal)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SIG Node have [proposed](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/9d127347773ad19894ca488ee04f1cd3af5774fc/keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md#proposal)
that
```

> the kubelet should be able to be configured such that:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the kubelet should be able to be configured so that:
```

- It can start with swap on.
- It will direct the Container Runtime Interface to allocate zero swap memory
  to Kubernetes workloads by default.
- You can configure the kubelet to specify swap utilization for the entire

>   node.

Reviewer 3: If I have a node with `tmpfs` mounted as `/tmp`, are we implying that the kubelet then controls the swappiness of that tmpfs?

If not, consider rewording to make the situation clear.

Swap configuration on a node is exposed to a cluster admin via the
[`memorySwap` in the KubeletConfiguration](/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1).
As a cluster administrator, you can specify the node's behaviour in the
presence of swap memory by setting `memorySwap.swapBehavior`.

> The kubelet employs the CRI (container runtime interface) API to direct the CRI to

Reviewer 3: Consider linking to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cri/

configure specific cgroup v2 parameters (such as `memory.swap.max`) in a manner that will
enable the desired swap configuration for a container. The CRI is then responsible to
write these settings to the container-level cgroup.

## How can I monitor swap?
A notable deficiency in the Alpha version was the inability to monitor and introspect swap
usage. This issue has been addressed in the Beta version introduced in Kubernetes 1.28, which now
provides the capability to monitor swap usage through several different methods.

The beta version of kubelet now collects
[node-level metric statistics](/docs/reference/instrumentation/node-metrics/),

> which can be accessed at the /metrics/resource and /stats/summary endpoints. This allows users to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
which can be accessed at the `/metrics/resource` and `/stats/summary` kubelet HTTP endpoints.
This allows clients who can directly interrogate the kubelet to
```
Friends might let friends talk to the kubelet, but they are wary of letting any random user do that.

monitor swap usage and remaining swap memory when using LimitedSwap. Additionally, a

> machine_swap_bytes metric has been added to cadvisor to show the total physical swap capacity of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`machine_swap_bytes` metric has been added to cadvisor to show the total physical swap capacity of the
```
How does this work if you're using an experimental cAdvisor-less kubelet?

Author: All of the metrics / stats under `/metrics/resource` and `/stats/summary` provide information about the current usage (for both memory and swap), and cadvisor metrics expose the total machine memory/swap size.

In my PR to support swap I've also extended the CRI API so that in the future the CRI would provide more information about swap statistics.

machine.

## Caveats
Having swap available on a system reduces predictability. Swap's performance is
worse than regular memory, sometimes by many orders of magnitude, which can
cause unexpected performance regressions. Furthermore, swap changes a system's
behaviour under memory pressure, and applications cannot directly control what
portions of their memory usage are swapped out. Since enabling swap permits
greater memory usage for workloads in Kubernetes that cannot be predictably
accounted for, it also increases the risk of noisy neighbours and unexpected

> packing configurations, as the scheduler cannot account for swap memory usage.

Reviewer 3: OK, sure, but please have a read of my article https://www.scalefactory.com/blog/2019/06/21/to-swap-or-not/ - or another like it - and have a think about whether paging still happens when swap isn't enabled.

_Disabling_ swap may still put applications in a situation where they cannot directly control what
portions of their mapped memory usage need refreshing into RAM.

Author: Hey @sftim!
I've read your article and it was very interesting! Thanks for sharing that!

You're right, paging can still occur when swap is disabled. However, as I see it, this topic is out of scope for this blog-post that deals specifically with swap. The behavior you're describing is, as you said, unrelated to swap as it can occur when swap is not provisioned at all.

Do you think that some information should be added here? If so, what do you think would be valuable to add in this context?

Reviewer 3: I recommend you reword
>  Swap's performance is worse than regular memory, sometimes by many orders of magnitude, which can cause unexpected performance regressions. Furthermore, swap changes a system's behaviour under memory pressure, and applications cannot directly control what portions of their memory usage are swapped out

to avoid implying that with swap off, applications get to control what parts of their virtual address space are in RAM.

The performance of a node with swap memory enabled depends on the underlying
physical storage. When swap memory is in use, performance will be significantly
worse in an I/O operations per second (IOPS) constrained environment, such as a
cloud VM with I/O throttling, when compared to faster storage mediums like
solid-state drives or NVMe.

As such, we do not advocate the utilization of swap memory for workloads or
environments that are subject to performance constraints. Furthermore, it is
recommended to employ `LimitedSwap`, as this significantly mitigates the risks
posed to the node.

Cluster administrators and developers should benchmark their nodes and applications
before using swap in production scenarios, and [we need your help](#how-do-i-get-involved) with that!

### Security risk
Enabling swap on a system without encryption poses a security risk, as critical information,

> such as Kubernetes secrets, may be swapped out to the disk. If an unauthorized individual gains

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
such as volumes that represent Kubernetes Secrets, may be swapped out to the disk. If an unauthorized individual gains
```

> access to the disk, they could potentially obtain these secrets. To mitigate this risk, it is
> recommended to use encrypted swap. However, handling encrypted swap is not within the scope of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
access to the disk, they could potentially obtain these confidential data. To mitigate this risk, the
Kubernetes project strongly recommends that you encrypt your swap space.
However, handling encrypted swap is not within the scope of
```

kubelet; rather, it is a general OS configuration concern and should be addressed at that level.
It is the administrator's responsibility to provision encrypted swap to mitigate this risk.

> Furthermore, as previously mentioned, with `LimitedSwap` the user has the option to completely
> disable swap usage for a container by specifying memory requests that are equal to memory limits.
> This will prevent the corresponding containers from accessing swap memory and eliminate any
> associated risks of information exposure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Does this prevent Pod-level data such as tmpfs volumes getting written to swap? How sure are we of that?
```

Author: So currently we only deal with swap on a container-level basis, not a pod-level basis.

Let's say that you create a non-Burstable pod, or a pod which its memory limits equal memory requests. From a cgroup perspective, the containers' `memory.swap.max` will be set to 0. The pod's `memory.swap.max` is not configured by kubelet.

IIUC, this is completely fine. In cgroup v2, processes might only reside at a leaf cgroup, so all of the processes would run one of the containers' cgroup and wouldn't be able to swap its memory. I'm not even sure if setting  `memory.swap.max` to 0 on the pod level cgroup would have any effect.

In addition, investigating tmpfs volumes is [one of the requirements to Beta2](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md#beta-2).

Reviewer 3: > In addition, investigating tmpfs volumes is [one of the requirements to Beta2](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md#beta-2).

We need to document something for security for beta, even if the advice is “The Kubernetes project has not evaluated whether this feature is secure”.

Bear in mind that Secret data in a _tmpfs_ doesn't belong to any Pod process, not even the sandbox.

Author: The KEP [addresses these security risks](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md#security-risk) and says:
> Enabling swap on a system without encryption poses a security risk, as critical information, such as Kubernetes secrets, may be swapped out to the disk. If an unauthorized individual gains access to the disk, they could potentially obtain these secrets. To mitigate this risk, it is recommended to use encrypted swap. However, handling encrypted swap is not within the scope of kubelet; rather, it is a general OS configuration concern and should be addressed at that level. Nevertheless, it is essential to provide documentation that warns users of this potential issue, ensuring they are aware of the potential security implications and can take appropriate steps to safeguard their system.

As the KEP dictates, the documentation provides a warning about the potential risks of secrets being paged to the disk. In addition, as the KEP dictates, we encourage users to use encrypted swap to mitigate this risk.

Furthermore, the behavior I've outlined before (pod's cgroup having `memory.swap.max == max`) isn't change with the recent changes to swap. IOW, it's the same behavior as in Alpha.

As said, this risk is mitigated by using encrypted swap.

In any case, I've tried to reword this to improve the phrasing.

Reviewer 4: Don't know if we want to provide a specific link to the secrets docs page which mentions that secrets are held in a `tmpfs` and not written to disk usually (without swap) https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#:~:text=For%20mounting%20secrets%20into%20Pods,confidential%20data%20from%20the%20Secret. 

This might help make the point clearer about why encrypted swap is recommended.

Author: @raesene Done, thanks!
PTAL

## Looking ahead

> The Kubernetes 1.28 release introduces Beta support for swap memory on nodes,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes 1.28 release introduced Beta support for swap memory on Linux nodes,
```

> and we will continue to work towards beta graduation in future releases. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and we will continue to work towards [general availability](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#feature-stages)
for this feature. I hope that this
```

will include:

* Add the ability to set a system-reserved quantity of swap from what kubelet detects on the host.
* Adding support for controlling swap consumption at the Pod level via cgroups.
  * This point is still under discussion.
* Collecting feedback from test user cases.
  * We will consider introducing new configuration modes for swap, such as a
    node-wide swap limit for workloads.

## How can I learn more?
You can review the current [documentation](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#swap-memory)

> on the Kubernetes website.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
for using swap with Kubernetes.
```

## How do I use it?
The utilization of swap memory on a node where it has already been provisioned can be
facilitated by the activation of the `NodeSwap` feature gate on the kubelet.
Additionally, the failSwapOn configuration setting must be disabled, or the
`--fail-swap-on` command line flag must be deactivated.

It is possible to configure the `memorySwap.swapBehavior` option to define the manner in which a node utilizes swap memory. For instance,

```yaml
memorySwap:
  swapBehavior: UnlimitedSwap
```

The available configuration options for `swapBehavior` are:
- `UnlimitedSwap` (default): Kubernetes workloads can use as much swap memory as they
  request, up to the system limit.
- `LimitedSwap` (default): The utilization of swap memory by Kubernetes workloads is subject to limitations. Only Pods of Burstable QoS are permitted to employ swap.

If configuration for `memorySwap` is not specified and the feature gate is
enabled, by default the kubelet will apply the same behaviour as the
`UnlimitedSwap` setting.

Note that `NodeSwap` is supported for **cgroup v2** only. cgroup v1 is no longer supported.

### Install a Swap-enabled cluster with kubeadm

#### Before you begin

> You need to have installed the kubeadm tool, following the steps from Installing kubeadm.

Reviewer 5: link to the guide for the install with kubeadm: https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/

Author: done

If swap is already enabled one the node, you can start to create the cluster then.
If not, you may follow the instructions here to enable swap.

> ##### create a swap file (4Gi here) and turn swap on

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
##### Create a swap file (4Gi here) and turn swap on
```
for consistency.

In other words, the amount of swap that a container is able to use is proportionate to its
memory request, the node's total physical memory and the total amount of swap memory on
the node that is available for use by Pods.

It is important to note that, for containers within Burstable QoS Pods, it is possible to
opt-out of swap usage by specifying memory requests that are equal to memory limits.
Containers configured in this manner will not have access to swap memory.

## How does it work?
There are a number of possible ways that one could envision swap use on a node.
When swap is already provisioned and available on a node,
[we have proposed](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/9d127347773ad19894ca488ee04f1cd3af5774fc/keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md#proposal)
the kubelet should be able to be configured such that:
- It can start with swap on.
- It will direct the Container Runtime Interface to allocate zero swap memory
  to Kubernetes workloads by default.
- You can configure the kubelet to specify swap utilization for the entire
  node.

Swap configuration on a node is exposed to a cluster admin via the

> [`memorySwap` in the KubeletConfiguration](/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1beta1/).

Reviewer 5: 404 page not found: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/b0de0bbccc63b37fb3c2c67a15db44fe8fbb261b/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1beta1

Author: This part was donated by @pacoxu. Which link did you wish to use here? Can you paste the external link and then we can try to understand how to use the internal one?

Reviewer: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1beta1/

The markdown in GitHub may be missing leading to a wrong URL.  This should be OK, in my opinion.

Reviewer 5: link to this should work: /content/en/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1.md

Reviewer 5: > The markdown in GitHub may be missing leading to a wrong URL. This should be OK, in my opinion.

Ack.

Reviewer: The link in preview website: https://deploy-preview-42009--kubernetes-io-main-staging.netlify.app/blog/2023/07/18/swap-beta1-1.28-2023/#how-does-it-work can work well.

Author: Fixed all broken links, with only internal references :+1: 
Thsnks a lot @pacoxu and @chendave!

### Install a Swap-enabled cluster with kubeadm

#### Before you begin

It is required that the kubeadm tool be installed, following the steps outlined in the
[kubeadm installation guide](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm).
If swap is already enabled on the node, cluster creation may
proceed. If swap is not enabled, please refer to the provided instructions for enabling swap.

##### Create a swap file (4Gi here) and turn swap on

```bash
dd if=/dev/zero of=/swapfile bs=128M count=32
chmod 600 /swapfile
mkswap /swapfile
swapon /swapfile
swapon -s
```

To start the swap file at boot time, add line like `/swapfile swap swap defaults 0 0` to `/etc/fstab` file.

#### Create a Swap-enabled cluster

To make things clearer, here is an example kubeadm configuration file `kubeadm-config.yaml` for the swap enabled cluster.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta3"
kind: InitConfiguration
---
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
failSwapOn: false
featureGates:
  NodeSwap: true
memorySwap:
  swapBehavior: LimitedSwap
```

Then create a cluster using `kubeadm init --config kubeadm-config.yaml`.

> During the init, there is a warning about swap is enabled on the node in case the kubelet `failSwapOn` is by default true, and we plan to remove it in future release.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
During the init, there is a warning that swap is enabled on the node in case the kubelet `failSwapOn` is by default true. We plan to remove this warning in a future release.
```

> During the init, there is a warning about swap is enabled on the node in case the kubelet `failSwapOn` is by default true, and we plan to remove it in future release.

Author: done

## How is the swap limit being determined with LimitedSwap?

> The configuration of swap memory, including its limitations, presents a significant

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

The configuration of swap memory, including its limitations, presents a significant
```

Author: Removed newlines after headers for consistency

Reviewer 3: We prefer the blank lines. That's how most articles do it.

This will prevent the corresponding containers from accessing swap memory.

## Looking ahead

The Kubernetes 1.28 release introduced Beta support for swap memory on Linux nodes,
and we will continue to work towards [general availability](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#feature-stages)
for this feature. I hope that this will include:

* Add the ability to set a system-reserved quantity of swap from what kubelet detects on the host.
* Adding support for controlling swap consumption at the Pod level via cgroups.
  * This point is still under discussion.
* Collecting feedback from test user cases.
  * We will consider introducing new configuration modes for swap, such as a
    node-wide swap limit for workloads.

## How can I learn more?

You can review the current [documentation](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#swap-memory)
for using swap with Kubernetes.

For more information, and to assist with testing and provide feedback, please
see [KEP-2400](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4128) and its
[design proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md).

> Feel free to reach out to me, Itamar Holder (**@iholder101** on Slack and GitHub)

Reviewer 7: this sentence is duplicated below

Author: Thanks, deleted
